Agent spec for log sending (#726)
elastic/apm: specs/agents/log-sending.md

> # Log sending

Reviewer: (These are ambiguous questions that may be out of scope for this PR.)

What happens if lots of log records/events in some user apps leads to hitting the agent's max queue size for sending events to APM server more frequently? Would we notice? Should [apm-agent health metrics](https://github.com/elastic/apm/pull/708) events have a higher priority?

Should there be some way to reduce the number of sent logs if it is clear they are dominating and overloading intake usage?  Something like `transaction_sample_rate` -- but obviously would have to be different because a random sampling of log messages would likely make them useless. Perhaps some maximum number of log records/events per time period (say 100 per intake batch or streaming request period, or some value that would avoid a heavy-logging app immediately overloading the agent's event queue). Perhaps start off with inifity for this value and have automatic backoff if the agent's event queue is getting filled from log events. I am just thinking out loud. I haven't spent any time thinking this through.

Reviewer 2: Sorry for the late reply, I somehow missed the notification on this one.

> I think the Java implementation of health metrics includes a breakdown of sent/dropped events per event type, so any "logs overflow" situation should be visible in those health metrics at the condition that the agent is able to send them (adding distinct queues would solve this aspect), can you confirm @JonasKunz ?

The metric for "total number of events created" does have a label for the event type, so we should be able to see if the number of logs created exceeds the number of other events significantly.
We however do not breakdown the "number of dropped events" by event type. This is because when the APM server rejects events (e.g. due to validation), it does not tell the agent which events or event types were rejected.

### `log_sending` configuration

**Warning**: experimental feature, may be subject to change until GA. Also, only a small subset of agents will provide it before GA.

Controls the ability to send logs directly from the agent to APM server.

|                |                 |
|----------------|-----------------|
| Valid options  | `true`, `false` |
| Default        | `false`         |
| Dynamic        | `true`          |
| Central config | `true`          |

The APM server only supports log events as of version 8.6+, thus trying to use this with an older version should

> issue a warning/error in the agent logs.

Author: Yes, unlike the ecs reformatting this always duplicates the original log events and send them to apm-server. The original log events are not altered and are still written to their usual destinations. I will add clarification for this.

> issue a warning/error in the agent logs.

Author: Clarified in 773136e

format where each event is written to a single line.

### Log event fields

The ECS logging fields are the same as the ones defined in log reformatting:
- [required fields](./log-reformatting.md#required-fields)
- [recommended fields](./log-reformatting.md#recommended-fields)

However, the values of `service.name` and `service.version` can be omitted as they are redundant to the values that are
already sent in the [ND-JSON metadata](metadata.md). In the case where the formatted ECS log event already contains
them it might be more efficient to send the event as-is than rewriting the event.

### Agent log

When `log_sending` option is enabled, agents may also send their own logs to APM server.

Agents usually have internal debug/trace logging statements that allow to diagnose communication issues and serialized data
sent to APM server. Special care must be taken to ensure that sending APM agent logs do not trigger an exponential loop
of log events or excessively large log event.
For APM agent logs, ignoring those log statements is an acceptable compromise, if there is any communication or 

> serialization issue with APM server it will already be logged for application traces, logs and metrics sent by the agent.

Author: Usually, when sending data agents often provide debug/trace log statements that help to diagnose what is sent on the wire for apm-server, so if there is any encoding or communication issue with apm-server it can be investigated by reading the logs.

When the agent send its own logs to apm-server and there is a bug in the agent, for example a serialization error, but it could be for any communication issue, then trying to send the debug/trace statement with the same code path that triggered the initial error is quite likely to go bad in multiple ways:
- with a verbose log level, if the agent logs the raw response from server, then the log payload will snowball into a very large JSON (it was the case with the Java agent) until the server limit (about 1Mb) is reached.
- with some agents the events are queued for sending, which means that trying to send logs should not create more log events in the queue.

So, what I meant with this sentence, is that :
- communication or serialization issues with apm-server will be logged in agent logs (in the usual file/stdout).
- when sending or processing agent log events, we should not "log about the logs" to prevent the behavior described above.
- if there is a general communication error with apm-server when sending application data (logs, metrics, traces, ...) then it will trigger enough debug/trace statements in the agent log (file/stdout) to investigate the issue.

> For APM agent logs, ignoring those log statements is an acceptable compromise, if there is any communication or 
> serialization issue with APM server it will already be logged for application traces, logs and metrics sent by the agent.

Reviewer: Thanks for the explanation. Perhaps this?

```suggestion
For APM agent logs, ignoring those log statements is an acceptable compromise -- diagnosis of agent errors in serializing or communicating with APM server may rely on local logging.
```

# Log sending

### `log_sending` configuration

**Warning**: experimental feature, may be subject to change until GA. Also, only a small subset of agents will provide it before GA.

Controls the ability to send logs directly from the agent to APM server.

|                |                 |
|----------------|-----------------|
| Valid options  | `true`, `false` |
| Default        | `false`         |
| Dynamic        | `true`          |
| Central config | `true`          |

> When set to `true`, the agent will duplicate log events and send them to apm-server.

Reviewer 3: The next line already describes the duplication part and "Original log events are unaltered" is clearer than "duplicating" events.

```suggestion
When set to `true`, the agent send log events to apm-server.
```

Reviewer: s/send/will send/?

Original log events are unaltered and written to their usual destinations (file, stdout, ...).

The APM server only supports log events as of version 8.6+, thus trying to use this with an older version should
issue a warning/error in the agent logs.

### Log event format

On the agent side, there are two ways to get an ECS-formatted log message from a log event:
- The application already uses [ecs-logging](https://github.com/elastic/ecs-logging)
- The agent embeds a copy of [ecs-logging](https://github.com/elastic/ecs-logging), which might also be used for [log reformatting](./log-reformatting.md).

In both cases, the output of [ecs-logging](https://github.com/elastic/ecs-logging) can be reused as follows:

```
{"log":<ecs-formatted-log-event>}\n`

> ```

Reviewer: Should we be expecting a "log.json" at https://github.com/elastic/apm-server/tree/main/docs/spec/v2/ ?  I guess there isn't a particular *need* for it.

Reviewer 3: We used to have a `log.json` schema but removed it. See also https://github.com/elastic/apm-server/pull/9349#discussion_r996667527

One of the reasons is that basically any top-level properties should be allowed eventually and that dotted and nested notations are treated the same which can't easily be expressed in a JSON schema definition.

The ECS logging event `<ecs-formatted-log-event>` must not include an `EOL` character in order to preserve the ND-JSON
format where each event is written to a single line.

### Log event fields

The ECS logging fields are the same as the ones defined in log reformatting:
- [required fields](./log-reformatting.md#required-fields)
- [recommended fields](./log-reformatting.md#recommended-fields)

However, the values of `service.name` and `service.version` can be omitted as they are redundant to the values that are

> already sent in the [ND-JSON metadata](metadata.md). In the case where the formatted ECS log event already contains
> them it might be more efficient to send the event as-is, rather than rewriting the event.

Reviewer 4: nit: I feel the wording "it might be more efficient" isn't very specific - sounds a bit strange in a spec to me. We already have the [must, should, may, etc](https://www.rfc-editor.org/rfc/rfc2119) terms here in the PR, so I'd just use that wording here as well.

```suggestion
already sent in the [ND-JSON metadata](metadata.md). In the case where the formatted ECS log event already contains
them, the agent may send the event as-is, rather than rewriting the event in order to reduce overhead.
```
